docs/GLOBAL-VS-LOCAL.md, before:

# Global vs. Local: Where Your Configuration Lives

> [README](../README.md) | [CATALOG](CATALOG.md) | [SKILLS-EXPLAINED](SKILLS-EXPLAINED.md) | [ARTICLE](ARTICLE.md) | **GLOBAL-VS-LOCAL**

### TL;DR

- **Three locations, three purposes** — Global (`~/.claude/`) applies to every project on your machine, Local (`.claude/`) is project-specific, this repository is the versioned source that feeds both via copy or symlink
- **Honest answer:** A solo developer on one machine with two projects probably doesn't need this repo. A team, multiple machines, or anyone who shares configs does
- **Global ≠ "everything everywhere"** — every installed skill header costs tokens on every API call. Install selectively

---

## Where Things Live

| What | Global `~/.claude/` | Local `.claude/` | This Repo |
|------|---------------------|------------------|-----------|
| Rules | `rules/*.md` — always loaded | `rules/*.md` — extends or overrides global | `rules/` — copy to either |
| Skills | `skills/[name]/SKILL.md` — headers always loaded, full content on demand | same — shadows global | `skills/` — symlink or copy |
| Agents | `agents/[name].md` — loaded on reference | same — shadows global | `agents/` — copy when needed |
| Settings | `settings.json` — merged with local | `settings.local.json` — overwrites matching keys | n/a |
| Project context | n/a | `CLAUDE.md`, `memory.md` — always loaded | `templates/` — copy & customize |

This repo is **not** a runtime location. Claude Code never reads from `~/skill-library/` directly.

**Symlink** skills you want to keep updated, **copy** content you want to own. See [README Quickstart](../README.md#quickstart) for commands.

> [!TIP]
> **The litmus test:** If you'd copy-paste it into a new project unchanged, it belongs in global. If you'd customize it, it belongs in local. If you'd version-control and share it, it belongs in this repo.

---

## How They Interact

### Resolution Rules

When the same name exists in both locations, **local wins**:

```
Claude Code reads:
  1. ~/.claude/rules/security.md          (global)
  2. .claude/rules/security.md            (local — replaces global if same filename)

  1. ~/.claude/skills/tdd/SKILL.md        (global)
  2. .claude/skills/tdd/SKILL.md          (local — shadows global if same name)
```

- **Rules:** Global loaded first, local after. Same filename → local replaces global. Different filenames coexist.
- **Skills:** Local checked first, then global. First match wins — they don't merge.

### Settings: Merged, Local Overwrites Keys

```json
// ~/.claude/settings.json
{ "autoCompact": true }

// .claude/settings.local.json
{ "hooks": { "Stop": [...] } }

// Effective:
{ "autoCompact": true, "hooks": { "Stop": [...] } }
```

Same keys in local overwrite global. Different keys coexist.

### The Flow

```
┌─────────────────────┐
│  skill-library/     │  Source of truth
│  (this repo)        │  Versioned, documented, shared
└────────┬────────────┘
         │
         │  copy / symlink
         │
    ┌────▼──────────┐        ┌──────────────────┐
    │  ~/.claude/   │        │  .claude/        │
    │  (global)     │        │  (local/project) │
    │               │        │                  │
    │  rules/       │───────▶│  rules/          │  local shadows global
    │  skills/      │───────▶│  skills/         │  local shadows global
    │  agents/      │───────▶│  agents/         │  local shadows global
    │  settings     │───────▶│  settings.local  │  merged, local overwrites
    └───────────────┘        └──────────────────┘
              │                       │
              └───────────┬───────────┘
                          │
                          ▼
                  ┌───────────────┐
                  │  Claude Code  │  Runtime reads from both
                  └───────────────┘
```

---

## Do You Need This Repo?

| Scenario | Repo needed? | Recommended setup |
|----------|-------------|-------------------|
| Solo dev, one machine, one project | No | Copy rules to global, write skills manually |
| Solo dev, one machine, 5+ projects | Maybe | Symlink core skills for consistency |
| Solo dev, multiple machines | Yes | Clone repo, symlink to `~/.claude/` |
| Small team (2-5 people) | Yes | Shared repo, each member clones |
| Team + open source projects | Yes | Fork repo, add to `custom/`, share with team |
| Organization with standards | Yes | Fork repo, enforce rules via CI |

For installation commands, see [README Quickstart](../README.md#quickstart).

---

**Deutsche Version:** [GLOBAL-VS-LOCAL_de.md](GLOBAL-VS-LOCAL_de.md)

Commit message:

docs: add CLAUDE.md directory hierarchy loading behavior
Add note that CLAUDE.md files are loaded by walking up the directory
tree (parent dirs at launch, subdirs on demand), with link to official
Claude Code docs.

https://claude.ai/code/session_01VnhakJYWkpWMPbPxgZtDTu

docs/GLOBAL-VS-LOCAL.md, after:

# Global vs. Local: Where Your Configuration Lives

> [README](../README.md) | [CATALOG](CATALOG.md) | [SKILLS-EXPLAINED](SKILLS-EXPLAINED.md) | [ARTICLE](ARTICLE.md) | **GLOBAL-VS-LOCAL**

### TL;DR

- **Three locations, three purposes** — Global (`~/.claude/`) applies to every project on your machine, Local (`.claude/`) is project-specific, this repository is the versioned source that feeds both via copy or symlink
- **Honest answer:** A solo developer on one machine with two projects probably doesn't need this repo. A team, multiple machines, or anyone who shares configs does
- **Global ≠ "everything everywhere"** — every installed skill header costs tokens on every API call. Install selectively

---

## Where Things Live

| What | Global `~/.claude/` | Local `.claude/` | This Repo |
|------|---------------------|------------------|-----------|
| Rules | `rules/*.md` — always loaded | `rules/*.md` — extends or overrides global | `rules/` — copy to either |
| Skills | `skills/[name]/SKILL.md` — headers always loaded, full content on demand | same — shadows global | `skills/` — symlink or copy |
| Agents | `agents/[name].md` — loaded on reference | same — shadows global | `agents/` — copy when needed |
| Settings | `settings.json` — merged with local | `settings.local.json` — overwrites matching keys | n/a |
| Project context | n/a | `CLAUDE.md`, `memory.md` — always loaded | `templates/` — copy & customize |

This repo is **not** a runtime location. Claude Code never reads from `~/skill-library/` directly.

**Symlink** skills you want to keep updated, **copy** content you want to own. See [README Quickstart](../README.md#quickstart) for commands.

> [!TIP]
> **The litmus test:** If you'd copy-paste it into a new project unchanged, it belongs in global. If you'd customize it, it belongs in local. If you'd version-control and share it, it belongs in this repo.

---

## How They Interact

### Resolution Rules

When the same name exists in both locations, **local wins**:

```
Claude Code reads:
  1. ~/.claude/rules/security.md          (global)
  2. .claude/rules/security.md            (local — replaces global if same filename)

  1. ~/.claude/skills/tdd/SKILL.md        (global)
  2. .claude/skills/tdd/SKILL.md          (local — shadows global if same name)
```

- **Rules:** Global loaded first, local after. Same filename → local replaces global. Different filenames coexist.
- **Skills:** Local checked first, then global. First match wins — they don't merge.
- **CLAUDE.md:** Loaded by walking up the directory tree — if you run Claude in `foo/bar/`, it loads both `foo/bar/CLAUDE.md` and `foo/CLAUDE.md`. CLAUDE.md files in subdirectories load on demand when Claude reads files there. ([docs](https://code.claude.com/docs/en/memory#how-claudemd-files-load))

### Settings: Merged, Local Overwrites Keys

```json
// ~/.claude/settings.json
{ "autoCompact": true }

// .claude/settings.local.json
{ "hooks": { "Stop": [...] } }

// Effective:
{ "autoCompact": true, "hooks": { "Stop": [...] } }
```

Same keys in local overwrite global. Different keys coexist.

### The Flow

```
┌─────────────────────┐
│  skill-library/     │  Source of truth
│  (this repo)        │  Versioned, documented, shared
└────────┬────────────┘
         │
         │  copy / symlink
         │
    ┌────▼──────────┐        ┌──────────────────┐
    │  ~/.claude/   │        │  .claude/        │
    │  (global)     │        │  (local/project) │
    │               │        │                  │
    │  rules/       │───────▶│  rules/          │  local shadows global
    │  skills/      │───────▶│  skills/         │  local shadows global
    │  agents/      │───────▶│  agents/         │  local shadows global
    │  settings     │───────▶│  settings.local  │  merged, local overwrites
    └───────────────┘        └──────────────────┘
              │                       │
              └───────────┬───────────┘
                          │
                          ▼
                  ┌───────────────┐
                  │  Claude Code  │  Runtime reads from both
                  └───────────────┘
```

---

## Do You Need This Repo?

| Scenario | Repo needed? | Recommended setup |
|----------|-------------|-------------------|
| Solo dev, one machine, one project | No | Copy rules to global, write skills manually |
| Solo dev, one machine, 5+ projects | Maybe | Symlink core skills for consistency |
| Solo dev, multiple machines | Yes | Clone repo, symlink to `~/.claude/` |
| Small team (2-5 people) | Yes | Shared repo, each member clones |
| Team + open source projects | Yes | Fork repo, add to `custom/`, share with team |
| Organization with standards | Yes | Fork repo, enforce rules via CI |

For installation commands, see [README Quickstart](../README.md#quickstart).

---

**Deutsche Version:** [GLOBAL-VS-LOCAL_de.md](GLOBAL-VS-LOCAL_de.md)
